# Applying deep learning to integrate multi-omics data for survival analysis in non-small cell lung cancer patients

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most prevalent form of lung cancer, and it remains a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. NSCLC patient outcomes highly depend on multiple factors including demographics, lifestyles, and genetics. Although advancements in high-throughput sequencing have made patients’ molecular profiles accessible, the prognosis of NSCLC patients based on molecular data is often challenging due to complex cancer biology. The recent development of deep learning approaches for survival analysis can offer new opportunities to improve survival predictions from patients’ sequencing data. In this project, I propose a deep-learning framework that integrates clinical, DNA methylation, gene expression, and somatic mutation data to predict patient survival. Univariate Cox proportional hazards regression was applied for feature selection within each omics type to identify important molecular biomarkers for NSCLC patient survival. Selected features were used to optimize separate deep survival networks for each omics dataset. The trained models were integrated through ensemble techniques, including averaging, weighted averaging, and stacking. By combining the predictive strengths of each model, I developed a comprehensive survival analysis model that can accurately predict patient outcomes and identify key molecular factors associated with NSCLC prognosis. The ensemble models significantly outperformed the individual models, with the stacking ensemble being the best-performing model. This approach improved accuracy and generalizability in survival prediction, helping personalized treatment strategies for NSCLC patients.
